Service Account Attacks
Based on the earlier explanation
of the Kerberos protocol,
we know that when a user wants to
access a resource hosted by a SPN,
a service ticket is requested from
the client to the domain controller.
The service ticket is then decrypted and
validated by the application server,
since it is encrypted through
the password hash of the SPN.
No checks are performed on whether
the user has any permissions
to access the service hosted by
the service principal name
when requesting the service ticket
from the domain controller.
These checks are performed
as a second step
only when connecting
to the service itself.
This means that if we know the
SPN we want to target,
we can request a
service ticket for it
from the domain controller.
Then, we can extract our own ticket
from local memory and save it to disk.
In this section we will
abuse the service ticket
and attempt to crack the
password of the service account.
For example, we know that the registered
SPN for the Internet Information Services
web server in the domain is
HTTP/CorpWebServer.corp.com.
From PowerShell, we can use the Kerberos
Requestor Security Token class
to request the service ticket.
The code segment we need is located inside
the System.Identity Model
namespace, which is not loaded into
a PowerShell instance by default.
To load it we use the Add-Type cmdlet with
the -AssemblyName argument.
We can call the Kerberos Requestor
Security Token constructor,
by specifying the SPN with
the -ArgumentList option.
After execution, the requested service
ticket should be generated
by the domain controller and loaded into
the memory of the Windows 10 client.
We can also use the built-in klist
command instead of mimikatz
to display all cached Kerberos
tickets for the current user:
With the service ticket for the IIS
service principal name created
and saved to memory,
we can download it from memory using
either built-in APIs or Mimikatz.
To download it with Mimikatz we
use the kerberos::list command,
and specify the /export
flag to download it to disk.
According to the Kerberos protocol,
the service ticket is
encrypted using the SPN’s
password hash.
If we are able to request the ticket and
decrypt it using brute force or guessing,
in a technique known as Kerberoasting,
we can get the password hash,
and from that we can crack the clear text
password of the service account.
As an additional bonus, we do not need
administrative privileges for this attack.
Let’s try this out.
We start by transferring the
file to our Kali machine.
To perform a wordlist attack,
we must first install the
kerberoast package with apt.
With the kerberoast package installed,
we’ll run tgsrepcrack.py,
specifying a wordlist,
and the downloaded service ticket.
We successfully cracked the service
ticket and found the clear
text password for the
service account.
Nice!
This technique can be very
powerful if the domain contains
high-privilege service accounts
with weak passwords,
which is not uncommon
in many organizations.